#summary Support for the CC128
#labels Featured

=Intro=
In Feb 2009, CurrentCost brought out a new version of their monitor - the 'ENVI', also known as the 'CC128'. ^{1}^

My CurrentCost GUI does work with the CC128, however the support is a little quirky. This page describes how it works now and why, and how I plan to improve it. 

=Background=
The previous version of the CurrentCost monitor outputs a full copy of it's records of historical electricity usage every six seconds. I wrote my CurrentCost software to take advantage of this - it spends most of the time relying on the CurrentCost meter to store history, and whenever the user wants, they can request that the application connect to the meter to get the latest history data^{2}^. At most this would take 12 seconds or so, and then the application disconnects.

(The main benefit of this is that you can still get all the graphs, without needing to leave your PC switched on all the time^{3}^.)

The CC128 works differently. It *doesn't* output full history every six seconds - it only outputs it at 1 minute past every odd hour. (e.g. 1.01, 3.01, 5.01, etc.). 

And it doesn't output the whole history in one message - it splits it up into several^{4}^ messages, each bit output every six seconds. You need to wait for all of the messages to get the full history.

=How the software works now=
~~As a first, quick attempt to get the software to work with the new meter, I only updated the parser (to handle the new data format^{7}^) and added the ability to wait for multiple messages and reconstruct the history from several bits. The overall approach is still the same.~~

~~You still need to tell the app to connect to the meter long enough to receive the history^{2}^, after which time it will disconnect.~~

~~However, for this to work, the meter needs to be outputting history data when you do this.~~

~~Which means you either:

~~a) Do this at 1 minute past the hour; or~~

~~b) Force the meter to start producing history data by pressing and holding the 'Down' and 'OK' buttons.^{5}^~~

~~Note that it's a little fiddly - the meter has to already be outputting history data at the point where the software connects, otherwise the software assumes that the meter has no history and/or has finished outputting it.~~

'Download data' --> 'Stay connected' was added to make life easier with the CC128.

If you have a CC128 meter, you should click on 'Download data' --> 'Stay connected' *and then* either:

a) Leave it running until at least 1 minute past an odd numbered hour; or

b) Force the meter to start producing history data by pressing and holding the 'Down' and 'OK' buttons.^{5}^~~

History data will be received and stored in the background. However, graphs will not be updated with the new data until you restart the app, or manually refresh the graphs using 'Download History' -> 'Stay connected' -> 'Redraw graphs'

_This is a temporary limitation - future versions of the application will update graphs automatically._

=Looking ahead=
I am in the process of re-writing the code to better support CC128 meters. 

I am redesigning the download-data/redraw-graphs code, to move away from the do-it-all-at-once-when-user-requests approach. 

The software will let you connect to the meter once and leave the connection open. Rather than putting up a progress bar and making the user wait until all of the messages have been received^{6}^, this will be done silently in the background. 

Once the updates are complete, if/when the software receives history data from the meter, the graphs will be updated and refreshed. 

As long as the application is running and connected at 1 minute past the hour, then it will receive updated data - without you needing to time your connection^{2}^ just right! And if you miss one history window, it doesn't matter - the meter stores the data for ages, so you can always let the software catch the next one.

I hope this will be a preferred approach, but please let me know if you disagree. 

I don't know when this will be completed - but if you are interested in my progress, you can always see the latest state of [http://code.google.com/p/currentcostgui/source/browse/ the code in CVS] or just ask me.



==Notes==
{1} - For more background about the meter, you can read about it on [http://currentcost.com/product-cc128.html CurrentCost.com] or on [http://dalelane.co.uk/blog/?p=389 my blog].

{2} - By clicking on: Download data -> Download history data... (connect directly)

{3} - You could switch on your PC once a month, connect to the meter for a few seconds, and still get full graphs of daily and monthly electricity usage.

{4} - As the amount of history stored increases, this can potentially be hundreds of messages.

{5} - Note that there is a problem with this approach - the meter's system clock will stop for the time it takes to transmit all of the history data messages. As this can potentially be several minutes (on a meter which has accumulated a large history set), this will result in your meter's clock being several minutes slow once complete. If you use this approach, you need to correct the clock time once you have finished.

{6} - For several minutes - a long time to watch a progress bar!

{7} - I've described the new data format in more detail on [http://dalelane.co.uk/blog/?p=456 my blog]